Let's be very clear about boundaries, what communication responsibilities belong to you,
and what remains with the service advisor. You should handle technical explanations,
what you found during diagnosis, why repairs are necessary, how systems work,
and what happens if the customer waits. This is your expertise. You should discuss vehicle
condition, show them worn or damaged parts, demonstrate problems, explain severity levels,
provide visual evidence and measurements. This is what builds understanding and trust,
and you should address repair necessity. Why is this specific repair recommended?
What do Porsche engineering specifications say? What are the safety or performance implications?
These are professional recommendations based on your expertise, and while situations vary
from one shop to another, here's what remains with the service advisor.
Pricing Discussions and Negotiations
Final cost quotes, payment options, discounts, or promotional offers.
That's not necessarily your domain as the technician. Timing promises, specific
completion commitments, scheduling, loaner coordination, delivery promises. The
service advisor manages these, although some input from you is required,
and warranty issues, coverage determinations, claim processing,
policy interpretations. These are handled by the service advisor and management,
but once again, you will have some input. Why does this division matter?
Because it allows you to maintain credibility as an objective expert.
You're not selling. You're assessing. You're not negotiating.
You're explaining. Your role is to provide honest technical evaluation
and help the customer understand their vehicle's needs.
The service advisor handles the business transaction side.
This clear division actually makes your job easier. You don't need to know pricing details
or make promises about timing. You focus on what you do best.
Technical Expertise and Clear Explanation